A strong pain in the lower right area
of the abdomen can be a sign of appendicitis,
which means an inflamed appendix.
The appendix is a small, worm-like organ
that sits at the beginning of the large
bowel on the right side,
just where the small intestine
empties its stool contents.
If food or a small piece of
stool blocks the opening of the appendix,
it can become infected and inflamed
and fill with pus.
This puts pressure on the walls of the appendix
and blocks the tiny blood vessels
that supply it with oxygen.
The walls become weaker and,
if not treated,
the tissue may become necrotic,
which means that it dies.
If the weakened walls burst or rupture,
the contents spill into the abdominal cavity,
which becomes inflamed and infected.
This dangerous condition is called peritonitis
and may be life-threatening.